Final Project Report (Due Dec 12th)

Please submit the report as pdf (see details on the format below). Only pdf to be submitted via Canvas. If the project involved coding and experiments, please send an email to instructors and TAs with   ADDITIONAL zip file containing code, makefile, instructions to execute, and a script that can generate the main plot in the report.

 

Due Date for Final Report: 12th Dec, 11:59 pm CT

 

The Final report should have the following 

IMPORTANT: NETIDS of ALL THE TEAM MEMBERS MUST BE THERE IN THE REPORT

1.  1-2 paragraph description of the problem you have solved or explored. 

 

It should be a concrete description with as many specific details as possible.

 

Example of a bad description:  We use better hashing to make bloom filters efficient. The problem is hard and slow  (too generic)

Example of a good description: Bloom filters uses random hash function and the access pattern of these hash function are random resulting in poor cache locality. Thus, Bloom Filters and universal hashing cannot exploit cache locality. For example: consider this <EXAMPLE> and clearly there will be multiple cache misses.  However, randomization is needed for low false positive rate. So the challenge is to balance cache efficiency and false positive rate. (Note that every thing should have as much specifics as possible)

Our proposal for addressing the above problem is: 1. We propose replacing universal hash function with a hierarchical hash function to make bloom filters cache efficient 2. We designed hash function to ensure enough randomness  Or we ignored enough randomness in light of THIS paper or work. 

 

1-3  paragraph literature survey.  
You must talk about at least 2 existing related ideas for each of the use cases (or problems) you are addressing. Describe what they did in brief.  

 

3. One line bold sentence about what is your hypothesis or argument for each use case. 

Example: We hypothesize that we can replace universal hash function with a cheaper hierarchical function which is cache efficient that will improve the performance of bloom filters without compromising the false positive rate.

 OR

We argue that doing xyz is better than what the alternatives are.

 

4.  2-5 paragraphs describing the experimental settings for each use case. 

 A complete description of the settings of the experiments. It must include: datasets, baselines, and evaluation metrics.  It should be as if someone can replicate the experiments just after reading it. It should include all choices of hyperparameters, etc.

 

5. Plots and 1-2 paragraphs summarizing experimental result for each use case

 

6. 1 paragraph conclusion of why you think you have justified 1 and 3. 